>> Steve Kinney: There are still some
problems that we can solve here.
One of the things that is interesting is
responsive design thinks
about the viewport.
So if we did something like this,
we put this grid in
something that's got a class
with a max width of.
You can.
Let's see, there's like.
Yes.
Yeah, let's give it a max-w of 3xl, right?
So it'll never actually hit
that large break point.
And it will, right?
But you can see that spiritually it has.
We'll even make it smaller than that.
We'll make it.
Which is.
As the viewport grows,
it does switch the responsive design mode,
but the container didn't grow, right?
And so that looks gross.
And for a blog layout, fine, whatever.
Who cares?
But there's lots of times where it's like,
you might.
Yeah, when we only have one thing,
that seems fine.
But what happens if we
have a set of cards,
right, that we will maybe
wanna put them in a sidebar?
Maybe we want to put them in the middle.
Like we have this reusable element that
we want to happen all the time, right?
And I don't want to have to sit there and
make 10 versions of this component to have
it laid out different ways or
have to tweak the classes every time.
I just want to say, like, yo, if you're
the only thing on the page, sure,
sure, sure.
Do the responsive design stuff.
If I throw those cards in a sidebar,
don't start to responsive design
yourself based on the window.
I want you to care about how big
the parent you're in is and react to that.
This is something that you couldn't
do really for the longest time.
Then CSS came to the rescue.
We got this thing called
container queries.
And so, a lot of these responsive design
breakpoints are based on the viewport,
as we saw over and over and over again.
Container queries are a way to say, in
the same way you used group before, right?
Where you say, this parent we care about,
you can basically say that any given
element is a container, right?
If I start with this and
I just say container, nothing happens.
It's the same group.
Nothing happens either.
Because you said, yeah, cool,
it's a group, it's a container.
Neat.
Then Tailwind gives us this syntax now,
where this lg,
this md, all of this stuff is for
the viewport.
But if we give it the @,
then it's for the container and
you can kind of see ntainer,
because that's the syntax.
It's like a media query,
hence the Sign also the other
one was taken is greater than 32 rems
then this is what I want it to be.
So arguably I wanted that.
Let's get rid of that
responsive design one.
That's the rows.
We'll put an in front of both of them.
Right now it doesn't care
necessarily about the window.
It cares about the size of its container.
Hold on, do I have all.
I have the call spans happening too.
So we got, Right,
I still have that screen kicking in but
as you can see because the.
Let's just get rid of that,
cuz that wasn't helping us.
You know what,
let's follow it all the way through.
Now since that container didn't hit
the threshold, these don't switch.
So now you could have
like cards that like hey,
if the container you're in is big enough
to do a four by four grid, great.
If the container you're in,
if the parent element you're in is only
big enough to have a single column, fine.
It's no longer based on the actual
viewport or you're doing a bunch of.
I'm gonna use React's context API,
then pass on window resize.
Now all of a sudden you don't
think about that anymore.
If I all of a sudden
took out this max width.
Actually let's leave this full size
going to take out this max width here.
Let's see container.
So we never hit it high enough.
Let's change these for a second.
What happened Container with
quick mistake that I made
was like you do an container
not just container which
makes sense with the there
otherwise there was a class in
tailwind called just regular
container which was to do
at every viewpoint a max
width that still works.
There's one if you want sensible.
If you don't want a page to
always take up the full screen.
There is this just regular container that
is built into tailwind that is a legit
tailwind class.
It pre existed container queries which
is a CSS feature which has the name
container in it.
So made a quick boo boo @container, gets
you into the container queries where now,
again, it can take up the full width,
great, it's here for it.
And if you give it a max-width,
let's make these as I
played around before,
let's make these a little
bit bigger again.
32rem, that gets to.
So the one thing to keep in
mind is all like they are and
this drives me nuts as you can see.
It's driving me nuts right now.
Which Is you're like,
why isn't it working?
The breakpoints for containers are all
less than they are for the full viewport,
which makes sense if you think
about it for more than 30 seconds,
which is obviously any given container is
gonna be smaller than the entire viewport.
So if you look this max width X and this
is where the hovering becomes important,
it's 36 rem.
This breakpoint for LG, my good Lord.
Is 32.
So it is actually working as expected,
but not what I wanted to.
So we can just kind of, let's just make
this max width MD to make my point,
which at this point they never change,
right?
But if I get rid of this or
make this larger,
you can see that if the container
gets to the point where they fit,
they will change and change their layout.
So now I could throw this same
layout into a very small sidebar.
They're gonna be stacked.
I can throw it into
the main body of the page.
They're going to have this view here.
I could throw it various places.
They will react not the overall size of
the screen, but to the container that they
are in, which gives you a whole bunch
more flexibility than ever before.
And again,
this is a relatively new feature.
Let's see.
And so that's something to keep in mind
that if you are still supporting older
browsers, something to think about.
That said, if you use something
like post css, you can a lot
of times retrofit this back on with
a polyfill, but just out of the box.
But we're talking 2022 forward, right?
Again, IE11, you're out of luck.
But like most browsers,
let's say from like 2023 onwards, right?
So like I feel pretty safe about that.
And the nice part is
your site doesn't break.
You would just get that
earliest breakpoint.
So effectively it is a progressive
enhancement in a lot of ways where
you can solve for that other version,
you can run it through post css,
you can do any of those things and
all of that just works.
I'm going to take one moment to just re
explain the little gotcha that I stumbled
across before,
which is I had container and I hovered
over it knowing something was off.
But you can see it is some tailwind
magic and there's some stuff in there.
And then everything started working
again when I put the in front of it.
There are some reasons container queries,
a CSS thing,
that's when we had the container.
But prior to that there was a tailwind
nicety of A class called container.
And what container is useful for
is, a lot of times,
especially if it's a blog or
some kind of content,
you don't want the text to take up
the full width of the page, right?
You want it to kind of stay to
the point where it's readable.
So this container class was used for
a really long time,
which is by default it's like a responsive
design thing where at the smallest
viewport is 100% and then each time
it applies a different max width so
you always stay in some kind
of readable like sense.
So this is just not container query
@container, and I put it mx-auto so
it just centers in the middle of the page
cuz a lot of times you see those together,
where okay, it's 100%.
You kinda see it break at
different viewports, right,
where each one it kinda
fills a new maximum content.
And eventually if I go all the way
it will never get too wide.
And so that's just the regular container.
It's useful for text content and
stuff like that.
And that is a totally
legit class that works.
And if you are talking
while you are typing,
you will accidentally forget that this one
means the container queries which are real
CSS feature which unfortunately have
a name that conflicts with an old tailwind
nicety that they also can't get rid of
because then it will break everything.
So the web continues to be the web,
everything is good, life goes on.
But yeah, for container queries, if you're
using in the breakpoint you should use
to define the container because again,
like what's really cool about this is,
you know, I could have something where
like it only matters what the parent is.
Big wide section.
Yeah, make it a 4 by 4 grid.
Throw that same component
in a sidebar 1 column.
I never think about it again.
I never write JavaScript,
I'm never sitting there like handwriting.
The classes,
things just work as they move around.
Life is good.